docs/source/rabbitmq-tutorial/1-introduction.rst, before:

.. _issue: https://github.com/mosquito/aio-pika/issues
.. _pull request: https://github.com/mosquito/aio-pika/compare
.. _aio-pika: https://github.com/mosquito/aio-pika
.. _official tutorial: https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/tutorial-one-python.html
.. _introduction:

Introduction
============

.. warning::

    This is a beta version of the port from `official tutorial`_. Please when you found an
    error create `issue`_ or `pull request`_ for me.


.. note::

    **Prerequisites**

    This tutorial assumes RabbitMQ is installed_ and running on localhost on standard port (`5672`).
    In case you use a different host, port or credentials, connections settings would require adjusting.

    .. _installed: https://www.rabbitmq.com/download.html

    **Where to get help**

    If you're having trouble going through this tutorial you can `contact us`_ through the mailing list.

    .. _contact us: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/rabbitmq-users


RabbitMQ is a message broker. The principal idea is pretty simple: it accepts and forwards messages.
You can think about it as a post office: when you send mail to the post box you're pretty sure that
Mr. Postman will eventually deliver the mail to your recipient. Using this metaphor RabbitMQ is a
post box, a post office and a postman.

The major difference between RabbitMQ and the post office is the fact that it doesn't deal with
paper, instead it accepts, stores and forwards binary blobs of data ‒ messages.

RabbitMQ, and messaging in general, uses some jargon.

* Producing means nothing more than sending. A program that sends messages is a producer.

We'll draw it like that, with "P":

.. image:: /_static/tutorial/producer.png
   :align: center

* A queue is the name for a mailbox. It lives inside RabbitMQ.
  Although messages flow through RabbitMQ and your applications,
  they can be stored only inside a queue. A queue is not bound by
  any limits, it can store as many messages as you like ‒ it's essentially
  an infinite buffer. Many producers can send messages that go to one queue,
  many consumers can try to receive data from one queue.

A queue will be drawn as like that, with its name above it:

.. image:: /_static/tutorial/queue.png
   :align: center

* Consuming has a similar meaning to receiving. A consumer is a
  program that mostly waits to receive messages.

On our drawings it's shown with "C":

.. image:: /_static/tutorial/consumer.png
   :align: center

.. note::
    Note that the producer, consumer, and broker do not have to reside on the same machine;
    indeed in most applications they don't.


Hello World!
++++++++++++

.. note::
    Using the `aio-pika`_ async Python client

Our "Hello world" won't be too complex ‒ let's send a message, receive it and
print it on the screen. To do so we need two programs: one that sends a
message and one that receives and prints it.

Our overall design will look like:

.. image:: /_static/tutorial/python-one-overall.png
   :align: center

Producer sends messages to the "hello" queue. The consumer receives messages from that queue.

.. note::

    **RabbitMQ libraries**

    RabbitMQ speaks AMQP 0.9.1, which is an open, general-purpose protocol for messaging.
    There are a number of clients for RabbitMQ in `many different languages`_.
    In this tutorial series we're going to use `aio-pika`_,
    which is the Python client recommended by the RabbitMQ team.
    To install it you can use the `pip`_ package management tool.

    .. _many different languages: https://www.rabbitmq.com/devtools.html
    .. _pip: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/quickstart/


Sending
+++++++

.. image:: /_static/tutorial/sending.png
   :align: center

Our first program *send.py* will send a single message to the queue. The first
thing we need to do is to establish a connection with RabbitMQ server.


.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/send.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 5-7

We're connected now, to a broker on the local machine - hence the localhost.
If we wanted to connect to a broker on a different machine we'd simply specify
its name or IP address here.

Next, before sending we need to make sure the recipient queue exists.
If we send a message to non-existing location, RabbitMQ will just trash the message.
Let's create a queue to which the message will be delivered, let's name it *hello*:

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/receive.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 17-18

At that point we're ready to send a message. Our first message will just contain a
string Hello World! and we want to send it to our hello queue.

In RabbitMQ a message can never be sent directly to the queue, it always needs
to go through an exchange. But let's not get dragged down by the details ‒ you
can read more about exchanges in the :ref:`third part of this tutorial <publish-subscribe>`. All we need to
know now is how to use a default exchange identified by an empty string.
This exchange is special ‒ it allows us to specify exactly to which queue the
message should go. The queue name needs to be specified in the *routing_key* parameter:

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/send.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 9-18

Before exiting the program we need to make sure the network buffers were flushed and our
message was actually delivered to RabbitMQ. We can do it by gently closing the connection.

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/send.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 20-21

.. note::

    *Sending doesn't work!*

    If this is your first time using RabbitMQ and you don't see the "Sent" message
    then you may be left scratching your head wondering what could be wrong.
    Maybe the broker was started without enough free disk space (by default it
    needs at least 1Gb free) and is therefore refusing to accept messages.
    Check the broker logfile to confirm and reduce the limit if necessary.
    The `configuration file documentation`_ will show you how to set *disk_free_limit*.

    .. _configuration file documentation: http://www.rabbitmq.com/configure.html#config-items


Receiving
+++++++++

.. image:: /_static/tutorial/receiving.png
   :align: center

Our second program *receive.py* will receive messages from the queue and print them on the screen.

Again, first we need to connect to RabbitMQ server. The code responsible for connecting to
Rabbit is the same as previously.

The next step, just like before, is to make sure that the queue exists.
Creating a queue using *queue_declare* is idempotent ‒ we can run the
command as many times as we like, and only one will be created.

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/receive.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 11-19

You may ask why we declare the queue again ‒ we have already declared it in
our previous code. We could avoid that if we were sure that the queue already exists.
For example if *send.py* program was run before. But we're not yet sure which program
to run first. In such cases it's a good practice to repeat declaring the queue in both programs.


.. note::
    **Listing queues**

    You may wish to see what queues RabbitMQ has and how many messages are in them.
    You can do it (as a privileged user) using the rabbitmqctl tool:

    ::

        $ sudo rabbitmqctl list_queues
        Listing queues ...
        hello    0
        ...done.
        (omit sudo on Windows)

Receiving messages from the queue is simple. It works by subscribing a `callback function` to a queue or using `simple
get`.

Whenever we receive a message, this callback function is called by the `aio-pika`_ library.
In our case this function will print on the screen the contents of the message.

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/receive.py
   :language: python
   :pyobject: on_message

Next, we need to tell RabbitMQ that this particular callback function should receive
messages from our hello queue:

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/receive.py
   :language: python
   :pyobject: main

The *no_ack* parameter will be described :ref:`later on <work-queues>`.

Putting it all together
+++++++++++++++++++++++

Full code for :download:`send.py <examples/1-introduction/send.py>`:

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/send.py
   :language: python

Full :download:`receive.py <examples/1-introduction/receive.py>` code:

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/receive.py
   :language: python

Now we can try out our programs in a terminal. First, let's send a message using our send.py program::

     $ python send.py
     [x] Sent 'Hello World!'

The producer program send.py will stop after every run. Let's receive it::

     $ python receive.py
     [x] Received message IncomingMessage:{
      "app_id": null,
      "body_size": 12,
      "cluster_id": null,
      "consumer_tag": "ctag1.11fa33f5f4fa41f6a6488648181656e0",
      "content_encoding": null,
      "content_type": null,
      "correlation_id": "b'None'",
      "delivery_mode": 1,
      "delivery_tag": 1,
      "exchange": "",
      "expiration": null,
      "headers": null,
      "message_id": null,
      "priority": null,
      "redelivered": false,
      "reply_to": null,
      "routing_key": "hello",
      "synchronous": false,
      "timestamp": null,
      "type": "None",
      "user_id": null
     }
     Message body is: b'Hello World!'

Hurray! We were able to send our first message through RabbitMQ. As you might have noticed,
the *receive.py* program doesn't exit. It will stay ready to receive further messages,
and may be interrupted with **Ctrl-C**.

Try to run *send.py* again in a new terminal.

We've learned how to send and receive a message from a named queue. It's time to
move on to :ref:`part 2 <work-queues>` and build a simple work queue.


.. note::

    This material was adopted from `official tutorial`_ on **rabbitmq.org**.

Commit message:

Add note about asyncio event loop
This is a hard requirement and will probably get new developers if not
mentioned early.

docs/source/rabbitmq-tutorial/1-introduction.rst, after:

.. _issue: https://github.com/mosquito/aio-pika/issues
.. _pull request: https://github.com/mosquito/aio-pika/compare
.. _aio-pika: https://github.com/mosquito/aio-pika
.. _official tutorial: https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/tutorial-one-python.html
.. _introduction:

Introduction
============

.. warning::

    This is a beta version of the port from `official tutorial`_. Please when you found an
    error create `issue`_ or `pull request`_ for me.


.. note::

    **Prerequisites**

    This tutorial assumes RabbitMQ is installed_ and running on localhost on standard port (`5672`).
    In case you use a different host, port or credentials, connections settings would require adjusting.

    .. _installed: https://www.rabbitmq.com/download.html

    **Where to get help**

    If you're having trouble going through this tutorial you can `contact us`_ through the mailing list.

    .. _contact us: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/rabbitmq-users


RabbitMQ is a message broker. The principal idea is pretty simple: it accepts and forwards messages.
You can think about it as a post office: when you send mail to the post box you're pretty sure that
Mr. Postman will eventually deliver the mail to your recipient. Using this metaphor RabbitMQ is a
post box, a post office and a postman.

The major difference between RabbitMQ and the post office is the fact that it doesn't deal with
paper, instead it accepts, stores and forwards binary blobs of data ‒ messages.

RabbitMQ, and messaging in general, uses some jargon.

* Producing means nothing more than sending. A program that sends messages is a producer.

We'll draw it like that, with "P":

.. image:: /_static/tutorial/producer.png
   :align: center

* A queue is the name for a mailbox. It lives inside RabbitMQ.
  Although messages flow through RabbitMQ and your applications,
  they can be stored only inside a queue. A queue is not bound by
  any limits, it can store as many messages as you like ‒ it's essentially
  an infinite buffer. Many producers can send messages that go to one queue,
  many consumers can try to receive data from one queue.

A queue will be drawn as like that, with its name above it:

.. image:: /_static/tutorial/queue.png
   :align: center

* Consuming has a similar meaning to receiving. A consumer is a
  program that mostly waits to receive messages.

On our drawings it's shown with "C":

.. image:: /_static/tutorial/consumer.png
   :align: center

.. note::
    Note that the producer, consumer, and broker do not have to reside on the same machine;
    indeed in most applications they don't.


Hello World!
++++++++++++

.. note::
    Using the `aio-pika`_ async Python client. To use you need a `asyncio eventloop`_, for
    example by appending:

    .. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/send.py
        :language: python
        :lines: 22-24

    .. _asyncio eventloop: https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-eventloop.html

Our "Hello world" won't be too complex ‒ let's send a message, receive it and
print it on the screen. To do so we need two programs: one that sends a
message and one that receives and prints it.

Our overall design will look like:

.. image:: /_static/tutorial/python-one-overall.png
   :align: center

Producer sends messages to the "hello" queue. The consumer receives messages from that queue.

.. note::

    **RabbitMQ libraries**

    RabbitMQ speaks AMQP 0.9.1, which is an open, general-purpose protocol for messaging.
    There are a number of clients for RabbitMQ in `many different languages`_.
    In this tutorial series we're going to use `aio-pika`_,
    which is the Python client recommended by the RabbitMQ team.
    To install it you can use the `pip`_ package management tool.

    .. _many different languages: https://www.rabbitmq.com/devtools.html
    .. _pip: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/quickstart/


Sending
+++++++

.. image:: /_static/tutorial/sending.png
   :align: center

Our first program *send.py* will send a single message to the queue. The first
thing we need to do is to establish a connection with RabbitMQ server.


.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/send.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 5-7

We're connected now, to a broker on the local machine - hence the localhost.
If we wanted to connect to a broker on a different machine we'd simply specify
its name or IP address here.

Next, before sending we need to make sure the recipient queue exists.
If we send a message to non-existing location, RabbitMQ will just trash the message.
Let's create a queue to which the message will be delivered, let's name it *hello*:

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/receive.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 17-18

At that point we're ready to send a message. Our first message will just contain a
string Hello World! and we want to send it to our hello queue.

In RabbitMQ a message can never be sent directly to the queue, it always needs
to go through an exchange. But let's not get dragged down by the details ‒ you
can read more about exchanges in the :ref:`third part of this tutorial <publish-subscribe>`. All we need to
know now is how to use a default exchange identified by an empty string.
This exchange is special ‒ it allows us to specify exactly to which queue the
message should go. The queue name needs to be specified in the *routing_key* parameter:

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/send.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 9-18

Before exiting the program we need to make sure the network buffers were flushed and our
message was actually delivered to RabbitMQ. We can do it by gently closing the connection.

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/send.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 20-21

.. note::

    *Sending doesn't work!*

    If this is your first time using RabbitMQ and you don't see the "Sent" message
    then you may be left scratching your head wondering what could be wrong.
    Maybe the broker was started without enough free disk space (by default it
    needs at least 1Gb free) and is therefore refusing to accept messages.
    Check the broker logfile to confirm and reduce the limit if necessary.
    The `configuration file documentation`_ will show you how to set *disk_free_limit*.

    .. _configuration file documentation: http://www.rabbitmq.com/configure.html#config-items


Receiving
+++++++++

.. image:: /_static/tutorial/receiving.png
   :align: center

Our second program *receive.py* will receive messages from the queue and print them on the screen.

Again, first we need to connect to RabbitMQ server. The code responsible for connecting to
Rabbit is the same as previously.

The next step, just like before, is to make sure that the queue exists.
Creating a queue using *queue_declare* is idempotent ‒ we can run the
command as many times as we like, and only one will be created.

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/receive.py
   :language: python
   :lines: 11-19

You may ask why we declare the queue again ‒ we have already declared it in
our previous code. We could avoid that if we were sure that the queue already exists.
For example if *send.py* program was run before. But we're not yet sure which program
to run first. In such cases it's a good practice to repeat declaring the queue in both programs.


.. note::
    **Listing queues**

    You may wish to see what queues RabbitMQ has and how many messages are in them.
    You can do it (as a privileged user) using the rabbitmqctl tool:

    ::

        $ sudo rabbitmqctl list_queues
        Listing queues ...
        hello    0
        ...done.
        (omit sudo on Windows)

Receiving messages from the queue is simple. It works by subscribing a `callback function` to a queue or using `simple
get`.

Whenever we receive a message, this callback function is called by the `aio-pika`_ library.
In our case this function will print on the screen the contents of the message.

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/receive.py
   :language: python
   :pyobject: on_message

Next, we need to tell RabbitMQ that this particular callback function should receive
messages from our hello queue:

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/receive.py
   :language: python
   :pyobject: main

The *no_ack* parameter will be described :ref:`later on <work-queues>`.

Putting it all together
+++++++++++++++++++++++

Full code for :download:`send.py <examples/1-introduction/send.py>`:

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/send.py
   :language: python

Full :download:`receive.py <examples/1-introduction/receive.py>` code:

.. literalinclude:: examples/1-introduction/receive.py
   :language: python

Now we can try out our programs in a terminal. First, let's send a message using our send.py program::

     $ python send.py
     [x] Sent 'Hello World!'

The producer program send.py will stop after every run. Let's receive it::

     $ python receive.py
     [x] Received message IncomingMessage:{
      "app_id": null,
      "body_size": 12,
      "cluster_id": null,
      "consumer_tag": "ctag1.11fa33f5f4fa41f6a6488648181656e0",
      "content_encoding": null,
      "content_type": null,
      "correlation_id": "b'None'",
      "delivery_mode": 1,
      "delivery_tag": 1,
      "exchange": "",
      "expiration": null,
      "headers": null,
      "message_id": null,
      "priority": null,
      "redelivered": false,
      "reply_to": null,
      "routing_key": "hello",
      "synchronous": false,
      "timestamp": null,
      "type": "None",
      "user_id": null
     }
     Message body is: b'Hello World!'

Hurray! We were able to send our first message through RabbitMQ. As you might have noticed,
the *receive.py* program doesn't exit. It will stay ready to receive further messages,
and may be interrupted with **Ctrl-C**.

Try to run *send.py* again in a new terminal.

We've learned how to send and receive a message from a named queue. It's time to
move on to :ref:`part 2 <work-queues>` and build a simple work queue.


.. note::

    This material was adopted from `official tutorial`_ on **rabbitmq.org**.
